---
title: Home 
---

I'm Aaron Weiss! I'm a third-year student at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, slated to
graduate in the spring. I'm interested in using type systems and formal methods to build better
tools and languages for software engineers. I'm also an open source software developer with
roughly a decade of experience. My favorite languages are [Scala](http://www.scala-lang.org),
[Rust](http://www.rust-lang.org/), and [Haskell](https://www.haskell.org), but I've also got
a lot of experience with [Java](https://www.java.com/), [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com),
[C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)), and [OCaml](http://ocaml.org).

I'm a research assistant to Prof. [Arjun Guha](http://people.cs.umass.edu/~arjun/) in the 
[PLASMA](http://plasma.cs.umass.edu/) research group. We're working on solving interesting problems
with techniques from programming language theory. My recent work has focused on static verification
and synthesis of [Puppet](https://puppet.com/) manifests. I used to work at a financial services
startup called [ProtoIPO](http://protoipo.com/) designing user interfaces and experiences. You can
find more information on my [CV](/cv.pdf).

In my spare time, I'll work on anything from websites to networking libraries to programming 
languages to video game server emulators. You can check out my work on 
[GitHub](https://github.com/aatxe). I also run my own IRC network in my free time called 
[PdgnCo](http://pdgn.co/). It's founded on democratic and anarchistic principles, and I operate it
accordingly. I also spend some time [blogging](/archive.html).

I'm a denizen of the web. If you're looking to contact me, you can find me all over the place. I'm
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/aatxe), [Facebook](https://facebook.com/aaronweiss74), 
[Google+](https://plus.google.com/+AaronWeiss74), [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/user/aaronweiss74), 
and [Keybase](https://keybase.io/awe). You can also talk to me on 
[FyreChat](irc://irc.fyrechat.net/vana) or [PdgnCo](ircs://irc.pdgn.co:6697/pdgn) as awe, or on
[freenode](irc://chat.freenode.net/) as aatxe. You can  also email me at
[awe@pdgn.co](mailto:awe@pdgn.co). You'll probably find me elsewhere, too. Older accounts will be
under the name aaronweiss74. More recent accounts will be under awe or aatxe. 
